+++
title= "Contributing books to the OPDS server"
+++

You will need Calibre or a similar e-book editing program to properly format metadata for your book.

## Formatting books prior to upload
All books must have the following metadata included:
- ISBN of book in 9/10 character format (not `978-#########`)
- Title of book
- Series information, unless not a series
- Three genre tags at maximum, unless a textbook or other educational excepetion
- Summary (use `Comments` section in Calibre)
- Publisher
- Month and year of publication
- Properly sorted author and title tags
- A high resolution cover (400x700 minimum; embed and in the same folder as book)

Certain book formats follow specific rules.

Textbooks must have the `Textbooks` tag as well as a tag containing the subject (History textbooks would have both `History` and `Textbooks`). It must have a verson in the PDF format, especially for textbooks with mathematics or source code written inside.

Novels and similar text-only books must have a version in the EPUB format. Graphic novels, comics, manga, and similar books must be in the comic book format in either ZIP or RAR format (`CBZ`, `CBR`).

No book should be converted from another format to meet these requirements, unless caution and care is taken into ensuring that the conversion is a virtually identical copy and experience to the previous format. Poor conversions will be deleted and [follow the 3-strike policy.](@/farer-and-you/contribution_policy.md)

## Uploading to OPDS
You will need to [use Samba](@/farer-and-you/remote.md) to connect to the OPDS server [using your Farer credentials.](@/farer-and-you/authentication.md) The Samba server is `100.111.158.128` and its share is `Calibre`.

If a folder does not already exist, create one for the author of your book. Then, create a folder with the name of your book's title in the format that it appears on the cover. Inside, upload the following files:
- the cover of the book
- the book file in its appropriate format and other formats, if necessary
- the `metadata.opf` file generated by Calibre, if used to add metadata.

The book should appear shortly after on the Calibre server ([`books.fa`](https://books.fa)) and OPDS server (`https://books.fa/opds`).