+++
title= "2022-001: The Rights and Obligations of Farer Members"
date= "2022-11-09"
+++

## Rights of Farer Members
Membership is not inheritable through birth, marriage, or adoption and can be revoked when any policy is broken by review of their peers.

### Right to equal treatment
Farer members must never be discriminated by: origin, race, gender, age, language, way of life, religion, idelogy, political opinion, disability, sex, sexual identity, or sexual oritentation.

### Right to privacy
Farer members have the right to be protected against the misuse of their personal data. They have the right to privacy in their lives and in relation to any communications taken part in or out of the Farer network. They have the right to have their personal data kept secure at all times.

User analytics, bar basic anonymous page "hits" are prohibited. The usage of data for tracking, marketing, and spam is prohibited. The distribution of data to any third-party is prohibited unless necessary to provide the core service.

### Right to basic freedoms
Farer members have the right to their basic freedoms of:
  - Religion and conscience
  - Expression and access to information
  - Media and freedom from censorship
  - Use of language
  - Artistic expression
  - Assembly and petition
  - Association

### Right to rescind membership
Farer members have the right to rescind their membership at anytime, granted they give proper declaration of such.

### Right to expand Farer
Farer members have the right to invite any person into the Farer network. There are no limits to the amount of people. A reason does not need to be provided to invite a member. Referrals are held to the same standard as Farer members.

Referrals who break policies will be barred from the Farer network and their membership revoked. The referring member may face similar punishment for being unbeknownest and barred from the Farer network if it can be proven without a doubt that the referral was with malicious intent.

### Right to access Farer
Farer members have the right to access Farer services at any time. Access to services and content must not be prevented on the basis of any discrimination, nor on the basis of geographical location.

### Right to vote or repeal policies
Farer members have the right to vote on policies that have been proposed within the two week window allotted. Members also have the right to vote to repeal a policy enacted.

### Right to serve content within Farer
Farer members have the right to serve content within Farer. This content is unregulated, however, it cannot contain:
  - pornography of any kind,
  - real-life gore or similar graphic content,
  - statements that incite violence, infringe a member's rights, or other harm to people and/or property,
  - sale of drugs, firearms, products of human remains
  - criminal for hire,
  - distribution of information intended to be private, bar that that has been whistleblown or protected under the jurisdiction of the information distributed or that of the distributor; and:
  - other illegal activites.

Those hosting this content must stop immediately and destroy it. If hosted knowingly, the member is also liable to face penalties both within Farer and their physical jurisdiction.

## Obligations of Farer Members
As a member of Farer, one must follow the obligations outlined in this document. Staff members are required to follow the obligations outlined in this document, as they are still members of Farer.

### Obligation of language fluency
Farer members must have a general working proficiency of either English or French. This requirement may be closest compared to CEFR level B1. Members are expected to communicate in one of these official languages. No support is guaranteed for other languages.

CEFR B1 is defined by the Council of Europe as being able to:
  - understand matters regularly encountered in work, school, leisure, et al.,
  - being able to deal with matters likely to occur while traveling in an area where the language is spoken,
  - able to produce text on topics which are familiar or of personal interest; and:
  - able to describe experiences, events, dreams, and hopes and briefly explain such.

### Obligation of general neutrality
Farer members are expected to understand that there is a time and place for politics, religion, et al. Farer members should not use the Farer network to impose religion, politics, or other ideologies on other members or people of the general public. 

### Obligation to exert common sense
Farer members are expected to follow common sense. Members are not permitted to exploit flaws found in services, nor to: flood traffic to any servers, attempt to circumvent Access-Control Lists, abuse the data they have access to, or use Farer for any purposes that are illegal in the member's physical jurisdiction or the jurisdiction of Farer's servers.

### Obligation to protect information intended to be private
Farer members are expected not to abuse the data they have access to, nor to distribute any data that is intended to be private. Documents marked explicity by The Farer Group as being for "internal use only" or meant to stay within the Farer network is prohibited from being distributed unless otherwise changed and marked to be okay for distribution.

