+++
title= "2022-003: Digital Security and Privacy Promise"
date= "2022-11-10"
updated= "2022-11-22"
+++

This policy regulates the minimum level of security and privacy measures on servers used by The Farer Group or services using Farer's Authentication Service to provide services to Farer members. It's ultimate intent is to:
  - protect the transfer of data from members to service providers from bad actors; and:
  - protect fundamental networking and DNS procedures from bad actors.

## DNS protections
Root DNS services are provided by FarerNIC or `dns.fa`/`nic.fa` for Farer members and residents. It is the singular authoritative DNS server. `dns.fa` uses an Anycast address to provide availability and fast connections through replication worldwide. It is intended to connect every server hosted by The Farer Group to provide DNS records.

## Login protections
Servers must remove password-based authentication unless accompanied by a second-factor hardware key method. In absence of password-based authentication, SSH access should be provided using SSH keys. Second-factor hardware keys are requried for servers run by The Farer Group and highly recommended for other parties affected by this policy.

SSH keys must not use the RSA or DSA format. Keys must use the Ed25519 signature scheme or a format of equal or greater security. These keys must be 4096 bit at minimum.

## Firewall protections
Servers should maintain a strict firewall and Access-Control List to:
  - prevent all users, but server administrations, from accessing remote control ports (such as SSH),
  - prevent all users from any other ports than that needed to access the service (such as NetBIOS); and:
  - allow all users to access the service.
Servers must reject any IP addresses not within the IP range of the Farer network, unless necessary for:
  - connecting to the Farer network via Wireguard connection,
  - communicating with external servers to provide a service; and:
  - providing public services, Farer or otherwise.

## Disk encryption and protections
Servers running macOS must encrypt data using FileVault 2 or use XTS-AES encryption that matches or exceeds the guidelines set out in NIST SP 800-38E using 128-bit blocks and a 256-bit encryption key. Servers running any other operating system must encrypt data using XTS-AES encryption to the same standards set before for macOS. NIST SP 800-38E is outlined in 10.6028/NIST.SP.800-38E ([DOI](https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-38E) | [The Libraries](https://pub.lib.fa/doi/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-38E)).

Drives should be split into volumes based on:
  - the operating system,
  - the working environment; and:
  - where user data is stored.

The operating system volume must be made read-only (immutable root), with exceptions allowed for trusted system updates and first-time configuration.

## User data handling
All users data should be handled pursuant their rights entailed in 2022-001 ([Fedlex](/fedlex/2022-001) | [The Libraries](https://pub.lib.fa/law/fa/2022-001)).
