+++
title= "2022-004: Server Tagging Scheme for Locations"
date= "2022-11-22"
+++

Servers owned or maintained by The Farer Group, running official services, or providing an "exit node" in Tailscale are obligated to follow this convention for tagging servers by their location via Tailscale and via FarerNIC.

## Denoting a server's country
The first two letters of a location string are the ISO 3166-1 code for the country. Examples of such are:
  - Bhutan: `BT-XXXXXXXX`
  - China, People's Republic of: `CN-XXXXXXXX`
  - The United States: `US-XXXXXXXX`
  - France: `FR-XXXXXXXX`

### Denoting a server's more precise location using postal codes
The following 5 numbers can be used to truncate or display the postal code of the closest major city. In most cases, this is the the number of the: district, canton, state, province, et al. An example of such is Paris, France, which has a postal code of `75XXX`— a complete server tag for a server in Paris would then be `FR75` followed by the hostname, seperating both by a hyphen. A complete example for a server located in Paris, France named `eevee` would be `FR75-eevee`.

If a postal code contains letters, they can be used in place of numbers. An example of such being Surrey, British Columbia, Canada. Surrey would be `CA-V6A`, with `6A` being used as a general point to Vancouver, the nearest major city. Another example would be Edinburgh, Scotland— `UK-EHX`, where `EH` is part of most postal codes in Edinburgh and `X` is a placeholder for numbers that would follow, omitted for privacy purposes. A complete example for a server located in Edinburgh, Scotland named `eevee` would be `UK-EHX-eevee`

### Denoting a server's more precise location with an ICAO code
When a postal code is insufficient, the next, up to 4, letters can be used to display the ICAO-formatted airport code of the closet major airport. An example of such being Lovelock, NV, U.S.A.— `US-KLOL`. A hyphen is always needed between the country code and a shortname region (use `US-DC`, not `USDC`).

## Usage of server tagging internally
For ease of referring, a server's full hostname, including tag, should be used when describing a server to prevent confusion between servers that may have the same name. Ideally, servers should not have confliciting hostnames, however it is not obligated to prevent such.

When a server is added as a DNS server, it's A record with `dns.nic.fa` will be their hostname followed by `.dns.nic.fa`. 

### Usage of server tagging publicly and towards members
Members will be able to use these tags to get a general idea of the location of a server to make an informed decision when choosing it as a DNS location, "exit node", or other usage through services. It makes it easier for users to also opt-out of certain regions for data to be mirrored to.

## Addendum of examples
- Server locatted in San Diego, U.S.A. called `rilakkuma`: `US-SOCAL-rilakkuma`
- Server located in San Francisco, U.S.A. called `kiwi`: `US-NCAL-kiwi` (after NoCal vs SoCal)
- Server located in the District of Columbia, U.S.A. called `whitehouse`: `US-DC-whitehouse`
- Server located in Paris, France called `eurostar`: `FR75-eurostar`
- Server located in Tokyo, Japan called `michiru`: `JP13-michiru`
- Server located in Hong Kong SAR, China called `weixin`: `CN-HKSAR-weixin`

